Good morning everyone or good afternoon,
good evening. It's Thursday, April the
9th. My name is Amory Band and this is
the Morning Ball Morning Newports charts
by trend spider gamma flows by mentor Q
news by Zigg Pro. So what are we staring
down? We're looking at the 30 minutes in
the E- Mini S&P. You can see really
after the initial shock event of the
news and it wasn't so much a shock as
algorithmic flow that forced everyone
out of the building was short. We stayed
pretty sideways all day. And again, my
thought process was let's take a look at
where we were sitting in the overnight
and realize that they're building
inventory there. Now, here's the
interesting thing. We have been building
inventory
for 2 days
almost. Okay, very least 24 hours and
almost 2 days. So what are we staring
down? Remember what happens when we
build inventory? Inventory is built up
so that it can be sold or bought. If I
am selling inventory up here, I want to
buy it back on the cheap. If I'm buying
inventory up here, I want to sell it on
the upside. That's all that's happening
here. The break gives us what's really
on the mend or on the break. So, let's
take a look at where we are in relation
to our pivot. We are sitting above the
pivot. What is momentum doing? Momentum
is a little bit bearish.
We spent most of the night sitting
inside of the last 30 minute candlestick
of the prior day.
Again, very heavy congestion. You can
see the point of control by that big
spike out here. That's 6815. That's
going to be a noisy edge. But if we
clear it and can get over the 30 minute
high, we're going to be in good shape.
Now, let's take a look at the 4 a.m.
candle. The 4 a.m. candle broke down
underneath.
They go up underneath the 30 minute of
the last day and underneath
the opening candlestick.
So what does this mean? This 30-minut
candlestick is still in charge
until we break the low of the 4 hour. If
we break the low of the 4 hour, we are
going to head to pivot. The low of the 4
hour 6793. Pivot 6774.
could you
uh could show Fibonacci swing high,
swing low, something like that. You sure
could. You'd use that link. And that
spike where we got a gamma wall sitting
and you can see that just below, excuse
me, just above that pivot, we've got the
line 678. So if we fade this, of course,
my goal, my favorite way to trade this
is the look below
and go. So what happens is we look
below, we bounce up, but we cannot stay
up there. So it's the candle that
rejects the support ledge. Right now
everything looks fine. Hey, just buy it.
Looks great. problem is because momentum
is down here, the VWAP is going to stand
in the way.
As long as the VWAP stands in the way,
bounces or sells.
Where are we in relation to the 50?
We're under it. That also gives us
selling pressure. If we buy, that's
going to be resistance. That number
6814.
If we start falling into this nasty
candle,
we have to measure it.
And this is going to be important for
your NQ, your RTY, whatever you do. The
50% edge
pretty close to the gamma wall that says
bullish or bearish, right? But very far
under the pivot 200 way down here.
This candlestick formation, which is our
opening 6 p.m. candle from
2 days prior,
is going to be the area that we will
watch ourselves fall into. Take a
snapshot and then replicate it on your
charts. It would be I got to ask Brad if
there's a way for for everyone to um get
my drawing. So maybe I can say I don't
know, but I I'll figure that out.
Otherwise, just freeze and then snap the
shot and you've got your limes. But mark
them off. We know how good they are. I'm
showing you exactly how they're found. I
want you to be able to go back and find
them on your own and then mechanically
you'll be able to tell where it is you
want to go. Okay. So, my thought is,
hey, do they come in save the day base
of support bounces into the top of the
30 minute formation? A flat 50 tells us
we've got SYOS's chop certainly in the
past. And so we're going to have to be
careful there. And if it loses that
edge, the pivot at 6774, which is also
known we can see on the daily is very,
very important. I do suspect we will
give all of this back. I don't know how
long it's going to take. All right,
let's go to the MQ.
Yeah.
All right. Daily burst
still well up over the edges. Uh
interesting pull wall.
We're jamming up into the P wall. The
wall has risen. Wow. Okay. So, this is a
recalibration of option traders because
remember the pull wall was down here and
now they've moved it up here thinking
here we go. We're up above the 200. We
know good things can happen there in the
pullback. We expect it to move to the
north. That's what they're thinking.
Very big move. Where's the point of
control? It's right here. 24,823.
Let's go to the third minute.
Sideways pressure. Just like the ES
sitting inside of this 30-minut
candlestick formation, the last 30
minutes of the day. The 4:00 a.m.
candle, folks, is sitting inside of that
candle. So this is still the dominating
force on the morning. This motion here
where people planted the flag and they
said, "Hey, we are going long off of
this edge and we're going to hold this
edge as hard as we can
until it breaks." Right? Where's the
pivot underneath us? What's that pivot
line? 24,884.
Region to look at just below it, 24,842.
Notice the thin pocket of volume here.
We can easily fill this in easily. 30
minute opening candle formation.
The base of that candle is now sitting
at the bottom of a pivot. I am going to
move that into the pivot line. The 200
well below us, very far below us. So,
here's what has to happen. either we
meander down and catch up with this 200
or we turn around, move on top of 50,
and just start running off the rails.
Uh, I'm going to let you guess which one
I think is going to happen. Obviously, I
think we're going to meander fill in the
volume event here. But here's when I'm
wrong. If it doesn't lose this 30 minute
low
of the last trading half hour, we are
going to find ourselves in a structure
that forces us to the north. This is
another volume that's being built.
24,950.
That's the floor. Do you want to buy
that floor and just wait it out? We can,
but you'd need to collapse into a much
tighter time frame to tell you that is
the right thing to do. Because being
under the VWAP and under the anchored
VWAP of the prior day, which is this
pink dotted line, and being under the 50
tells me that we just as easily could
come back down, kiss this pivot, and
then rotate up. If you want to put 100
points at risk, work yourself out. I'm
not going to do it. Now, that being
said, it could be a very cheap long,
right? Very, very cheap long if you're
thinking about you can put maybe 30
points of risk and try it, but that
that's not new. Momentum sideways. So,
this tells me I've got sideways action,
which actually is another reason we
might go, well, yeah, sideways. Let me
buy it. It's up to you. I'm waiting for
congestion to settle out. So, I would
rather wait for the top where the zero
DTE call wall is. And that number is
25,100
and then short that. And if it doesn't
work, I know I've got long action that
sends me up to 25,278.
Interesting days. Interesting days. Big
gamma wall to watch. 24,740.
Taking a peek at our next instrument,
let's look at micro bitcoin. Very
sideways. I don't know if anybody read
the New York Times
uh article for who is Satoshi. Not like
anybody really cares. Uh maybe people
care. I I don't know. I just found it
pretty easy. I mean, pretty easy reading
because it's John Teru and he was the
guy that busted the Theronos thing wide
open and so
he thinks it's a guy called Adam back.
Check it out. It's pretty good. Um,
okay, that's it. Let's take a look at
Micro Bitcoin. You can see we are
sitting in value area, heavy congestion
for a couple of days. Highest volume
candlesticks. These are these are weird.
So to yesterday, let's remove all this.
Yesterday, the highest volume
candlestick was the 930 candle, which is
great cuz that's one of our candles that
we watch.
And the price action event bounced up
into the halfway spot and then
collapsed. So now we're looking at
Fibonacci
to measure that edge. We can see come
right down into that starts holding that
space and we've got ourselves some
motion. The big candle of course is
this candle at 6:30
the night of the news, the ceasefire
news.
And essentially
that's where we're sitting. That's the
real candle that we're we're sitting
inside of. We held the floor of it. Came
almost right down to the base and now
it's moving up. Where are we? Okay.
Where's the pivot? It's just above us.
We've tried to get above it. Still
can't. But it is very congested. No
signals there just yet except the signal
that is noise. Okay. So, we have the
noise that's sitting there. Where's the
VWAP? Well, we're trying to hold the
VWAP.
slope of the VWAP flat all day
yesterday. Now triangle hold some
pressure. We've got some higher lows.
Where's momentum? Sideways. Where's the
200? Far away. What's this tell us? That
we've got a mosh pit. And so what we
want to do is see get above the anchor
VWAP. That is I'd say 72,000.
Right? We get above 72,000. See, we got
above it here and we collapsed. So we
want to look above and go. And so the
look above
pulls back holds the floor of support
which is this box. And then we move to
the north and that will give us targets
at 73 or so. But when we dance around
the pivot, that's tough trading unless
you're coming in at the edges and you're
very clearly focused on what's going on.
Remember, you can collapse to 5 minute
or 1 minute. just use your 200 and all
of everything sort of flips into here.
If you're interested, I've got the
morning session at uh the Topstep
Discord in the coach's classroom. So,
you can pop on there, have a visit.
Okay, let's take a look. Crew
crew hold the floor. Now, you you know
my thought is that crew heads down here
to 85.
Sadly,
it's stopped dead 92 foot wall 90. So
that's defending the ledge
call wall
105.
But that is the daily uh zero DTE call
wall. The big call wall for monthly is
100. And we are trying to breach it.
Let's take a look at this inventory
just accumulating, accumulating,
accumulating, accumulating.
Inventory box. This is a first break out
of the inventory box. And we're above
the pivot. Where was the last pivot? It
was way above us there. We came down.
We're trying to get above the pivot.
Where's the slope? Where's the VWAP?
Well, it's underneath us. So, it's
providing some support. What's the slope
of that VWAP? It's flat as a pancake.
Flat VWAPs tell us we've got noise in
the chains of buy and sell. And so, it's
very easy to break.
Where's the 50? It's underneath us
providing support. Where is the 200?
It's above us providing resistance.
What's the trade? Well, here's where
it's sticky.
Either we break out
or we fall back into this range. So,
what's the story board? How do you
decide? Is this a look above and go?
Let's say you decide you want to trade
it low. My thought would be see if it
comes back into the box. If it comes
back into the box and holds this region
right around 98,
then as it leaves the box, you can go
long and move up. Your stop will be
right around that VWAP area. Momentum is
bullish.
We don't really want oil to move up. It
means the market will move down in
general. So, we would like for it to
fall back in. Um,
and I think a lot of people are going to
try and short
at a 100 to see if we can push it back
into Valvario.
Um, point of control, the point of
control or the end of Viva.
All right, sticky bits. Well, Venton's
quite bullish. Quite bullish. Let's get
to gold.
Let's reform right now.
Yeah. All right. See what gold is doing.
Right back in heavy congestion.
Look at it pop right outside value area.
Pedal value area. Almost came into that
200. And now what's it trying to do?
It's trying to get back above 5,000. Is
it going to? I think it's going to be a
sticky bit eventually. Yes, I do
believe. But at this juncture, we have
negative divergence. Take a look. Price
action going up, momentum going down.
However, the 200 is still support and
the 50 is still resistance. That number
is 69. Oops. 4960
or so. Expect the traders to try to
press to this north as long as the
higher lows continue. So, let's get to
the 30 minute. What are we seeing?
Remember, observe, orient, decide, act.
Observe is just staring at the chart.
Orient. This is what we do. momentum is
up. Where is the pit? It's above us.
So, it's acting as relative resistance.
However, what we have is a 200 that's
sort of flat that's holding a sport. A
VWAP that's sort of flat but also
holding a support and a downward sloping
50 that's been broken. So, what does
this tell us? Listen, that's a mixed
bag. A downward 50 says, "Hey, we're
going to run up and find resistance."
So, where's the first pocket of
resistance? It's going to be the pivot.
Absolutely. It's going to be the pivot.
Why? Uh cuz everybody sees it. And as
you know, traders are simple. If that
offends you, I'm sorry because maybe you
are not a simple, but I sure am. And
thinking simply has kept me in the
business for years, many, many years.
So, here we go. Heading to the pivot.
First target 4785.
4785. Now, the question, some traders
might go, "Okay, I'll go long." Well,
here's the thing. You can go long or
short at any time. You just have to
decide your risk first. And the risk
here, because it's a downward sloping
moving average, is all of the 4hour
congestion that sits here. See, I can
sound confident about directional flow,
but I only know what I know. And what I
know is you better make sure you manage
your risk. So, if you decide, hey, I'm
taking this long, you can you can go
right there, but your risk is 20 points
away, right? That is 200 ticks. Um,
that's a lot, especially in gold. Okay.
So, could you do it? Yes. Does it mean
it's the ideal trade? No.
But that is where it's headed. If it
breaks to the north, the anchor VWAP
4,800
and this very nasty pocket of noise
right here. Let me show you the box of
inventory that they are after.
the highest volume candle of LeBron day.
It's this one right here easily. It
could be headed to the north, but this
downward 50 will
step in the way. Okay. Value area high
4737.
Value area low 4650.
Point of control 4685.
What's going to happen here? You know,
it's a bit of a mod bit to be honest. We
did have mean reversion came right back
into the 200.
Is it obeying the 200 relatively
speaking but it didn't obey it 3 days
ago. I mean it did if it said hey listen
we're going to resolve in the direction
of trend but that trend at any time
could have changed. So mosh pit action
here potential mosh pit action here. So
dips
into the 200 very likely the buy zone to
watch
and we'll see how that goes. Lastly,
we've got spy.
Let's see what the traders are trying to
do on the daily here. There are the 50
duking it out. This is the third day
messing around here.
Now, you know, if you're a buyer or a
seller, you want to get out of here post
taste.
You don't want to sit around in here.
So, it says there's a pretty good
battleground framing out right here at
or so. We spiked up, call 680, but put
wall 600.
And then we've got a gamma line that
flips gamma positive negative at 660.
Positive gamma flow VIX is collapsing.
All kinds of interesting things are
happening in there. Dips or buys in the
big picture here. But that$150 tells us
that we have resistance. Let's head over
here. 30 minute chart. The intraday
trader.
Let's orient ourselves. Where is the
pivot?
or the love of Pete. Where is the pivot?
The pivot is above us. Right here, the
50. Look at the slope of this 50.
This gives us a good buy shot. You see
this?
That is a very strong upward flow. It
shows mean reversion.
So, the pullback into 673.
Great long trade. That's what you would
look for. Where's it headed?
The pivot 675.
That's where it's headed. All right.
Momentum turning up.
This is the first one that said, "Hey,
you know, we could have upward flow
today." Most certainly.
The coal 680 could go there easily.
We're back in
the last 30 minutes of the trading
range.
So that's the box. Likely resistance
likely resistance is pushing us up above
675.
Okay. And that's that's what we're
staring down.
This is this is interesting.
This one looks much better than the ES
one. Right. If we're taking a look at
the ES, it doesn't look nearly as clean
at all
because of this collapse, but
it could be heading right back up to the
top of that box. Very, very interesting.
I like looking at the spy for that
reason. Okay, folks. That's it for me.
Have yourself a good day. Hopefully, the
sound came through. All right.